+++
date = "2017-04-10T16:42:50+01:00"
draft = false
weight = 180
description = "A wee word about this project"
title = "Welcome to the Herbarium"
bref = "A demo to collapsable elements"

+++

There's this terrific series of books by Ellis Peters about a medieval monk [Brother Cadfael](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cadfael). When he's not solving murders and other mysteries that crop up around his monastery, he's working in the herbarium. The BBC production of Cadfael is good fun, and I remember being particularly captivated by the sight of his herbarium. When I first watched it, shortly after we moved our family from America to the Scotland, I thought to myself: "Self. Some day you're going to build a herbarium."

It's been just over five years since that original thought and many more than that since my wife and I first developed a love for urban gardening as part of a guerilla gardening collective in Vancouver, BC. Now we live in the second largest urban centre in Britain where I'm a lecturer at the University of Birmingham. And friends, I am living the dream. Growing herbs is really serious work, both in excavating the knowledge required to grow and use medicinal plants (which was commonplace stuff a few hundred years ago) and in finding ways to dovetail this new gardening hobby with our family's desire to live lightly on the land and find ways to reconcile the harms that we and our ancestors have visited on the biosphere. As I've begun learning, it began to seem like a good journey on which to bring along some friends, so that's why I've begun this blog.

On the Back Garden Herbarium I'll detail the trials and tribulations of urban hardening and try to consolidate some of the knowledge that I've been gaining along the way. I'm nothing but a persistent amateur, but hopefully the benfit for you is that my writing will be pitched at an audience who has (like me!) never grown, prepared, or even heard of any of these plants.

Why start a herbarium? As I hope you'll discover, there is a huge amount of goodness growing around us, plants with amazing abilities to heal and restore. More than that, however, the act of growing plants offers a way of re-connecting with our landscapes. One thing that I've been surprised to discover as I've begun gardening is how many of the plants in my garden are growing in ditches and parks all around us. Having this awareness has changed the way I experience my city. Perhaps it will do the same for you!